---
id: spending-info
title: Signing Transactions
---

# Signing Transactions in Bitcoin-S

There are two kinds of transaction signing in Bitcoin-S, as defined in `Signer.scala`: Single Signing and Full Signing.

Single signing, which is implemented as a simple function in `BitcoinSigner`, consists of using a single `ECPrivateKey` (or other [Sign implementation](../crypto/sign.md)) to generate a `PartialSignature` of the given transaction. This consists of an `ECDigitalSignature` and a `ECPublicKey`. This is useful any time you have a single private key and wish to get a single `ECDigitalSignature` for that private key as is the case when using [Partially Signed Bitcoin Transactions](psbts.md). In order to call `signSingle`, you must have access to the unsigned transaction, as well as a `ECSignatureParams`, which encapsulates all the information needed to sign with a single key. Note that if the unsigned transaction has signatures on it, they will be ignored.

Full signing, which is implemented by the subtypes of `Signer`, consists of using any number of `ECPrivateKey`s (or other [Sign implementations](../crypto/sign.md)) to generate a fully signed, `TxSigComponent` for a given transaction. In order to call `sign` on any instance of `Signer`, you must have access to the unsigned transaction, as well as a `ScriptSignatureParams`, which encapsulates all the information needed to sign with any number of keys. Note that the unsigned transaction can have signatures on it, just not on the input being signed. Specifically, a fully signed `TxSigComponent` has a member called `input` which will contain the fully signed `TransactionInput` as well as `scriptSignature` which contains the `ScriptSignature` that was just generated. Additionally, `TxSigComponent` has a member called `transaction` which returns a transaction which has all inputs of the input unsigned transaction except for it uses the new input that was just generated by the call to `sign` instead of an `EmptyScriptSignature`.